E:\论文库\视频目的地形象_pdf\1-s2.0-S0160738304000295-main.pdf
Printed in Great Britain0160-7383/$30.00Assessment and Role ofDestination-Self-CongruityElisabeth KastenholzUniversidade de Aveiro, PortugalThis study addresses destination-self-congruity (DSC) as a dimension of desti-nation image, which is assumed to play a role in explaining tourist behavior. Aperson’s self-concept or ‘‘perception an individual has of him/herself, based notjust on one’s physical self but inclusive of the products and services consumed,and the people with whom that individual associates’’ (Todd 2001:185) hasreceived attention in consumer research and has been shown to be a relevantcontribution to the understanding of tourism consumption (Sirgy and Su 2000;Todd 2001).In this context, product-self-congruity—the perceived matchbetween a product’s or its user’s personality and the consumer’s self-image—isassumed to correlate positively with brand preference and/or purchase (Sirgy1983).0
 An assertive administrat-ing procedure yielded a response rate of 85% (based on a count of all touristsapproached on visited sites on randomly selected days).DSC was considered as a result of a direct comparison between actual self-image and affective destination image (or ‘‘holistic personality of the desti-nation’’), including the perceptions held of the resident population, other tour-ists, and the symbolic qualities of the destination. Both constructs (self-image andRESEARCH NOTES AND REPORTSaffective destination image) were measured on 16 semantic differential scales,reﬂecting personality traits, and based on an instrument tested by Malhotra(1981) in several product and person domains. It was adapted to a rural desti-nation via exploratory research, using a student sample of experienced rural tour-ists (n ¼ 85) and tested subsequently on international tourists (n ¼ 385).0
 They then answered Malhotra’s (1981) scale with regards to them-selves and the destination. The analysis resulted in a number of further itemsdeemed suitable for destination image measurement.For assessing DSC, the ratings for destination and self-image were confrontedscale-wise and the average absolute difference value was calculated as an indicatorof it, as a variation of the traditional measure of DSC using the sum of absolutediscrepancy scores (Sirgy et al. 1997).0
 An additional, single, holistic indicatorscale of the construct (‘‘very similar $ very different’’) showed a symmetrical dis-tribution and a signiﬁcant but weak correlation (r ¼ :086; p ¼ :001) with thecomposite DSC indicator. The computation of the average difference score,based on a scale-wise comparison, may indeed not be appropriate, if the twoimage objects do not share the same semantic domain. This was tested by com-paring factor structures of both image objects, resulting from a principle compo-nent analysis with Varimax rotation (Table 1). The ﬁve components found foraffective destination image explained 57.0
Consequently, a single scale (very similar $ very different) was employed for fur-ther analysis of the role of DSC for potential future tourist behavior using mul-tiple regression analyses. Apart from DSC, the three more consistent affectivedestination image dimensions mentioned (pleasant, calm, and simple, in Table 1)and the simultaneously assessed cognitive image dimensions (nature, basics/wel-coming atmosphere, action/fun, information/access, culture) were used as inde-pendent variables. Probability to return, measured on a 7-point Likert-type scale,was signiﬁcantly determined by the cognitive factors nature (t ¼ 4:909; sig. .0
There is much scope for future research to identify the relevance of DSC in thecontext of destination perception and choice. The construct and its oper-ationalization may deserve further study, considering both different objects ofcomparison (tourists, residents versus self) and different types of self-image (suchas social, ideal). Also the role of DSC before making decisions, the evolution ofthis feeling throughout the holiday experience, its determinants, and the event-ual mediating factors of its role for destination patronage may be interesting ave-nues for future research._AElisabeth Kastenholz: Universidade de AveiroDEGEI, Campus Universita´rio de Santiago,3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal.1
E:\论文库\视频目的地形象_pdf\1-s2.0-S0160738305000782-main.pdf
02.001MEDIA EFFECTS ON IMAGEThe Case of TibetJulien MercilleUniversity of California, USAAbstract: Using media effects research as a theoretical framework, this paper examinesempirically the impact of media representations—such as movies, guidebooks, and maga-zines—on destination image. Past research has focused on either representations or image,but rarely on both. Based on a systematic comparison of the former with the latter, it isargued that the impact of media representations on image falls between a strong andnegotiated inﬂuence.1
Re´sume´:Effets me´diatiques sur l’image: le cas du Tibet. Employant comme cadre the´ori-que la recherche sur les effets me´diatiques, cet article examine empiriquement l’impactdes repre´sentations me´diatiques (comme les ﬁlms, magazines et guides touristiques) surles images de destination. Jusqu’a` maintenant, la recherche a e´te´ concentre´e sur les repre´sen-tations ou l’image, mais rarement sur les deux a` la fois. En les comparant syste´matiquement,il est avance´ que l’impact des repre´sentations me´diatiques sur l’image se situe entre une inﬂu-ence forte et ne´gocie´e.1
INTRODUCTIONResearchers have identiﬁed several factors shaping the images thattourists hold of destinations. Gartner (1993), building on the workof others (Gunn 1988; Phelps 1986), has provided a useful typologysummarizing the various ‘‘formation agents’’ inﬂuencing destinationimage. Those range from traditional forms of advertising and popularculture to friends’ advice and actual visitation. This article focuses onpopular culture media—an ‘‘autonomous’’ agent under Gartner’s(1993) terminology—and its impact on destination image.1
MEDIA EFFECTSdestination; the term ‘‘representation’’ will be used throughout torefer to such content.It has been recognized that popular culture and other forms of imag-ery have a signiﬁcant impact on destination image. For instance, in thesocial sciences literature, Urry argued that the tourist gaze ‘‘is con-structed and sustained through a variety of non-tourist practices, suchas ﬁlm, TV, literature, magazines, records and videos’’ (1990:3; see alsoMorgan and Pritchard 1998). In the marketing literature, researchersmaintain that representations shape image, having described this pro-cess through several typologies (Butler 1990; Gartner 1993; Gunn 1988;Phelps 1986).1
 Media pro-ductions consulted by tourists prior to their trips will be compared totheir imagination/perceptions of Tibet in order to assess their congru-ence (or lack thereof). A strong congruence would suggest that mediarepresentations have a strong effect on image (Hall’s ﬁrst hypothesis);a lack of congruence would support the hypothesis that the media hasno or a very limited effect (Hall’s third hypothesis); situations betweenthose two extremes would suggest a negotiated relationship betweentourists’ and media representations (Hall’s second hypothesis).Scholars have often assumed, implicitly or explicitly, that representa-tions inﬂuence image. However, most research has focused on onlyone or the other, while examinations of both and assessments of theircongruence are lacking.1
 Suchstudies typically show which aspects of a destination are selected, omit-ted, and distorted in those materials. For example, Silver (1993) dis-cusses the image of the Third World conveyed in brochures. Hewrites that most tourists’ ‘‘understandings about indigenous peoplesseem to derive most immediately and explicitly from images marketedin travel magazines, advertisements, and brochures’’ (1993:303). How-ever, little empirical evidence is provided to support these claims.1
Moreover, the readership of the brochures considered is not men-tioned, which would have helped to assess their signiﬁcance.Conversely, the destination image literature has measured tourists’perceptions, but neglected to analyze representations. Nevertheless,it often assumes that the latter signiﬁcantly shape the former. Thisassumption is most apparent when recommendations are given (in sev-eral marketing studies) about the ways in which the projected image ofa destination should be modiﬁed to improve tourists’ image of thatplace.1
 This number iscontrasted to the 2% who found, on the contrary, a less modern place(more traditional) than they had imagined. This suggests that a tradi-tional image of Tibet clearly dominates tourists’ imagination of theplace. One ﬁnding worthy of note is that as many as 47% of touristsfrom Hong Kong found more modernization/developmentthanexpected. This could be explained by the fact that residents of HongKong have been exposed to a greater extent to the Chinese discourseabout Tibet, which asserts, among other things, that it is an underde-veloped, primitive region of China; and thus needs to be modernized,justifying Chinese involvement (Heberer 2001).1
National Geographic has published many articles about Tibet for manyyears. Its effect on tourists’ images is less precise than other represen-tations, since it is not possible to know which speciﬁc piece(s) wereconsulted. Therefore, all feature articles (six in total) published specif-ically about Tibet from 1980 to summer 2002 were selected, with con-sideration given to both their pictures and text. One focused on areligious ceremony, another on nature and conservation, two on devel-opment and modernization, and two on nomads.1
200). This could suggest that representations had only a limitedimpact on image, and hence that the analysis so far committed an eco-logical fallacy. However, it is argued below that this is not the case, be-cause contemporary representations of Tibet are homogeneous. Butcorrelations were ratherJULIEN MERCILLEﬁrst, a word on the credibility of sources of information and messagerepetition.1
 a guidebook) does not seem to makea signiﬁcant difference on the extent to which a representation shapesdestination image. Nevertheless, credibility can also be assessed byexamining whether the total number of sources consulted has an im-pact on tourists’ perceptions: does repetition of a message increaseits credibility, or does it shape image to a greater extent? This wastested with the gamma coefﬁcient, used to evaluate the correlationbetween the total number of sources consulted and the mention of agiven perception. For instance, is a tourist who has watched the twomovies and read the guidebook (for a total of three representationsconsulted) more likely to imagine Tibetans as, say, friendly than a tour-ist who consulted only the guidebook? The results suggest that this isindeed the case: several perceptions (half of those listed in Table 1)were more likely to be held by tourists who had consulted a greaternumber of representations (at a signiﬁcance level of 5%). Therefore,based on the (limited) evidence available, it appears that message rep-etition increases the impact of media representations on image.1
 Inshort, one basic picture of Tibet is circulated by the many representa-tions of it. This is so because the majority of such artifacts are variationson the Shangri-La image ﬁrst popularized by James Hilton’s novel LostHorizon (1933) and by Frank Capra’s 1937 ﬁlm version of it. Thesecrystalized the Shangri-La image that is associated today with Tibet(Bishop 1989, 2000; Hutt 1996; Schell 2000). However, this is not todeny variability, especially outside popular culture (Barnett 2001;Bishop 1989, 1998, 2000, 2001; Dodin and Rather 2001; Huber 2001;Lopez 1994).1
However, media effects should not be overstated, as some observa-tions suggest a ‘‘negotiated’’ or even an ‘‘oppositional’’ impact (Hall’ssecond and third hypotheses). A case in point is that individual tour-ists’ images rarely contain every predominant feature shown in repre-sentations. For instance, although ‘‘Seven Years in Tibet’’ depictedTibetans as religious and friendly, the Chinese as violent, and the land-scape as mountainous; individual tourists remembered only a few, notall, of these features. This attests to a partial impact and shows thatindividuals make their own meanings out of media productions, andthus should not be conceived of as passive receivers.1
 In a nutshell, each person interpretsmessages differently given the cultural and social milieus from whichs/he comes. For instance, throughout the paper, differences in percep-tions among various types of tourists (backpackers vs tour groups; West-erners vs non-Westerners) were noted, illustrating that each one ofthem ﬁlters projected images in contrasting ways. Audience ethno-graphy is one way to study such diversity, as are more positivist method-ologies which have focused on sociodemographic characteristics(Baloglu 1997; Baloglu and McCleary 1999). Similarly, views of natureor of a foreign country vary over time and across space.2
